---
title: 'Me, My Self & I'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - 'The Ideal Pragmatist'
    author:
        - 'Tony Owens'
---

A new vista of radical theoretical and applied opportunities has recently (over the past 30 years) opened for Psychosynthesis by virtue of the development of the core work of renowned philosopher Richard Rorty. The academic progress within what is known as Anti-Representationalism, in the area of human meaning has provided the capacity to produce verifiable, process orientated contexts, which enables the synthetic integration of emergent human knowledge, using the discoverable nature of the will of the Psychosynthesis Self, in relationship with infinite identifications, some of which we may usefully refer to using the personal pronoun ‘I’.
This approach enables the liberation of the inner Self dialectic from culturally conflated self-conceptions, potentially removes recurring resistances, which prevent access to naturally occurring joy, eradicates false positive reporting of self-esteem issues and makes disabuse pleasurably bitter sweet and easily transformed with a giggle.
Enabling and enjoying understanding, as the active integration of knowledge can help identify, prevent and remove, biased mental attachments, associated with emotionally clinging identifications. This makes purposeful synthetic integration of new knowledge, using the highest common denominator, possible for any healthy mind.
Some broad sense of the advances within the new solutions available may be glimpsed if we consider them analogous of the differences between a land compass and a gyroscopic compass, which enables navigation in a constantly changing Sea. For a moment, if we think of Western psychology, even notions of Transpersonal Psychology, as derived from notions of evolution from culturally bound, fixed points of reference, such as points in the past, like those in childhood as similar to a land compass then we may consider this new approach like a gyroscopic marine compass which works with attitude in the present in relationship with the Self and the ‘I’. The empty nature of the self and the receptive will that thus arises, properly understood, provides a constant point of reference for infinite contingent manifestations of ‘I’ in the form of identifications.    
to be like a land compass that uses to be a type of 
providing a new  considered as a Locus, Focus compass that enables navigation 
and the integration of emergent human knowledge provides powerful new contexts that enable 
 and the potential for using Psychosynthesis as a primary paradigm for our developing human relationship with AI belies the genius of Roberto Assagioli’s 

Until the recent work done in the area of anti-representationalism now the evolution of the foundations of Psychosynthesis from within the naturally occurring pathos within the area of the mental illnesses addressed by Psychiatry and Psychotherapy in the first world has prevented inevitably 
The purposeful story of the journey to freedom from and for in “Me, My Self & I”, the hydra headed, manifold maize, with only one route for escape, which leaves, travels through and arrives
A practical solution that enables positive participation in the present for a mind trapped in object subject identifications,  sometimes aptly referred to using the personal pronoun I, made possible by Desire Dynamics
Making sense & nonsense in the flux & fire In Me – Introducing The Anti Fragile Self
Beware the danger of the ‘I’ bound Self, an ‘I’ is a brittle temporary conception in any me and remember we never step into the same “I” twice.
Our focused attention within the inner life of our mind in this world is largely episodic as we identify with one complex notion at a time, in a lifelong ocean of mental notions, each identification is another ‘I’ in our Me. The roles we enter and leave in life give names to our I’s and we can self reference in theses roles using the ‘I’ pronoun, while these may be are most prominent I’s they are in the minority of the I’s we have inhabited and will inhabit. The nature of the ‘I’ is essentially that of a temporary structure that is destined to go as soon as it comes, in me and you, the Self abides in my me and your me accepting manifold I’s effortlessly because its nature is emptiness. It is this nature that enables effortless true love in our relationships with all our I’s. 
If we understand this then we can understand that it is not our I’s that love although we may have truly loving I’s, if they formed using the empty self conception.
We can experience the ceaseless procession of sometimes competing or contradictory notions of identification and the inevitable disidentification as if we were riding this roughest of constantly agitated beasts an agitated rough beasts calls for infinite flexibility if we are to avoid emotional burn out and enjoy
We can now begin to eradicate pseudo self-esteem issues and set our Selves’ free to be. If all the dialectic in your self-reflections begins with ‘I….’ You can micro dose until the cows come home, your reflections are happening in a downward orientated Holon, bound by conventions which means you are probably outsourcing the foundations of your self identity and limiting the potential for joy and qualitatively better and more valuable meaning in your everyday life as you live it in your ‘I’ bound Self.
From the time we were born you and I inhabit our own private Me mind, before the Self or I arrive. As new awareness emerges within us, we construct and constitute a Self in contingent relationship with Me and “I”, in our relationships with the world we live in and the local languages used to discuss and describe these relationship. 
When I and Self are used interchangeably during our youthful self-reflections the confusion caused can create a convincing mental illusion and convince us we are essentially inconsistent. Clearly if we are to follow the emergent self-knowledge and disabuse our own errors we will need to find a way to manage inconsistency and adaptation with a smile that rejoices in finding a better way not a grimace.    
When we are born, we are joining in, we have been caused, we are not beginning, the game is already afoot and the best of intentions cannot shield us from the terrors caused by the naïve errors in cultural misconceptions of individual Self identity.
Flaws in our cultural self-conceptions and the distorted values that flow from these errors create serious real world problems for individuals, families and communities. Two obvious and growing problems that these errors contribute to significantly are
•	The increase the prescription of medication for anxiety caused by mental confusion among children and young adults
•	 Suicide caused by logical false positives that are the result of the conflation of I and Self during self-reflection and result in pseudo problems self-esteem in otherwise healthy minds. 
caused by the absence of a framework to handle the rapid and constant flow contradictory information, corrupt data, often spawned and broadcast by the loudest voices of the low minded political, business and media mountebanks we must recognize the urgent need for the type of anti-fragile Self identity, which Desire Dynamics provides, by virtue of new knowledge available to us all.
We are lucky at this time in the history Self-conception in first world to have discovered, new to us knowledge, which will enable the paradigm shift necessary for the synthetic integration of Me, My Self and I, while continuously and consistently using the highest common denominator.
for the benefit of each me of us., enable the  because it can improve business outcomes and like it or not that is where the power to change positively in service humanity is lacking. Businesses that want to be here over the long term will embrace true love if you can show how it can improve the bottom line.   
cultures, we are called upon to integrate some recently acquired new knowledge that requires a paradigm shift. In a modern context this is a Black Swan event, which is likely to become most evident with the increased use of AI.
From the circumstances experienced with the increased us of technology in may deduce that that the life that the best healthy minded Me’s will live, in this inherently dynamic time and space, have the need for a capacity to manage infinite manifestation of variable I’s, while funding a Self with emergent human knowledge.
 in and consistency through life in time, in all healthy minded Me’s the Self in all our Me’s is naturally empty throughout our natural lives.
In the English and European traditions, we are greeted as substance and significance and simultaneously we become subjects of ego theories prone to inevitably confusing paradoxical errors in Self referencing. 
Contiguous to the linguistic contradictions which arise due to the constraints of consistent cultural language sets there is a continuous changing that occurs in a life lived in time and space which means we never step into the same “I” twice. 
“Of the Logos which is as I describe it men always prove to be uncomprehending, both before they have heard it and when once they have heard it.” – Heraclitus Fragment 1, Sextus, adv.math VII, 132
The arrival of a conscious “Me” in the life of my mind is unaware of the pre-existing “Me” within which my consciousness has resided until then. This new consciousness can be considered to be the herald of the beginning of the journey of my conscious Self. 
The ‘I’s’ that I first use attempt to refer to the relationship of the Self in Me within my family of origin, my tribe, my culture, it is thus always a fragment of me, semantically constrained in language, curated by family, tribe and culture in the image of the conservation of what is already named “The Good” before my mind arrived.
Removing and eradicating the mental confusion and emotional suffering that arises in our Me’s, which is caused by these baked in conservation theories of identity was one of the first challenges I faced in developing Desire Dynamics.
The purpose of Desire Dynamics is to create the necessary mental framework to handle emergent human knowledge. The capacity to continuously update, upgrade and adapt effortlessly is urgently required particularly as the uses of AI become more integrated within human society.
the nature of ‘I’ and Self uilt in Disentangling my Self from this historical plantation is necessary if the naturally arising suffering 